# Example: Movie Recommendations

Other movies you may like...

# Working backwards 

* Users want to discover movies they haven't yet seen that they might enjoy
* Their own behavior (ratings, purchases, views) are probably the best predictors
* As before, availability and partition tolerance are important. Consistency not so much.

# Cassandra's our first choice

* But any NoSQL approach would do these days

# How do movie recommendations get into cassandra?

* We need to use ML
    - Spark MLLib
    - Flink could also be an alternative
* Timeliness requirements to be thought out 
    - Real time ML is a tall order - do you really need recommendations based on all the ratings you just left?
    - That kinda would be nice

# Creative thinking

* Pre-computing recommendations for every user
    - Isn't timely
    - Wastes resources
* Item-based collaborative filtering
    - Store movies similar to other movies (these relationships don't change quickly)
    - At runtime, recommend movies similar to the ones you've liked (based on real time behaviour data)
* So we need something that can quickly look up movies similar to the ones you've liked at scale
    - Could reside within web app, but probably want your own services for this
* We also need to quickly get all your ratings / views/ etc

# Ok then

* So we'll have some web service to create recommendations on demand
* It'll talk to a fast NoSQL data store with movie similarities data
* And it also needs your past ratings / purchases / etc
* Movie similarities (which are expensive) can be updated infrequently, based on log data with views / ratings / etc

# So here is an architecture that might work...

* Consumer behaviour data
    - As people rate movies, we can pick up stuff with Flume/Kafka
        + Dump into system to extract behaviour data we care about
            * Customer X, extracted Y 4 stars
            * USE SPARK / FLINK
        + Store it in HBase (Cassandra would also work)
        + We also will want to do a lot of analysis for that movie
        + We want the movie data to be available for interaction
        + HDFS has high availability as well. MongoDB would also be a good choice.
        + Once we have User data in HBase we can have Oozie to extract data and compute similar movies
            * This can run infrequently
            * Oozie can kick this off daily
            * Can be stored again in HBase
        + ONce we have all the movie similarities.
        + Now you have a recommendation service that uses the data from the customer and the movie recommendations and return it to the web app server.


