
# Introducing Ambari

What is Ambari all about?

Looking at the Ambari dashboard, it provides an overview of what the cluster is doing, and it's overall health:

* HDFS disk usage 
    - green as its ok
    - If you click on the widget you can customize the colours red/orange thresholds
* You can move the widgets around
* If in a real custer, everything will be giving you very useful info
* Provides an overview on whether stuff is healthy

Ambari is also used for installing Hadoop - a lot of times people setup hadoop cluster via Ambari.

You can start with an empty cluster and install Ambari from there. If cloudera, hortoworks doesn't work, you can use it ambari to make it not so hard.

If clicking on any of the services, it takes me to the services tab. You can click on history server. View history server of map reduce for example. See the service of YARN. It might also have configuration, and change the config.

In the Pig service, we can go to advance config properties, and you can edit the config file directly from the browser - ie changing logging stuff, etc.

HOSTS - allows you to dive into the hosts , and start/stop services as need be. If services hung, this is an easy way to access the service.

Can view configuration specific alerts, so that instead of going to dashboard every few times. We can choose HDFS storage capacity usage.

We can also configure where the notification goes. You can add new notifications of people that shoudl be alerted if something goes wrong.

Admin also has a tab wher eyou can modify stack, versions, etc.

The main thing we'll use is the grid in the top right. We have multiple views:

* Files view
    - View the hierarchy of files
* Hive view
    - Run hive queries
* Pig view
    - Create pig scripts, etc




