
# What is HIVE?

We can make our Hadoop cluster behave like a relational database using something like HIVE.

HIVE is a powerful an simple way to query our system.

HIVE allows us to run standard SQL queries, which then is distributed across MapReduce/TEZ commands, and then runs on top of Hadoop YARN!

From the standpoint of a developer, it still feels as if we were querying it from a SQL point.

## Benefits

* Uses familiar SQL - familiar (Actually called HiveQL)
    - Only  a few exceptions from SQL
* Interactive
* Scalable - works with "big data" on a cluster
    - Most appropriate for data warehouse applications
* Easy OLAP queries - way easier than writing MapReduce in Java
* Highly optimised
* Highly extensible
    - UDFs
    - Thrift server
    - JDBC / ODBC driver

## Why not HIVE?

* High latency - not appropriate for OLTP
    - It's for OLAP, not OLTP = Online transaction processing
    - High throughput low latency is not good
    - It only translates SQL to map reduce = map reduce takes a while to spawn
    - You should expect a few minutes to get the answer
        + Of course with big datasets, it's still much better
* Stores data de-normalized
    - Not real relational database, it's just flat text files
* SQL is limited what it can do
    - Pig, spark allows more complex stuff
* No transactions
* No record-level updates, inserts, delete
    - Because there is no relational db underneath...

## HiveQL

* Pretty much MySQL with some extensions
* For example VIEWS:
    - Can store results of a query into a "view" which subsequent queries can use a table
        + Not the same as a materialised view in RDBs. 
        + RDBs actually store the data. 
        + Although the views in Hive are persistent, they don't store any data
* Allows you to specify how unstructured data is stored and partitioned 












