
# Hadoop Ecosystem and Technologies

## Core Hadoop Ecosystem

### HDFS

**Hadoop Distributed File System**

All of our hard drives -> one system

If one bursts into flames, it can recover from that and back itself automatically.

This is the distribtued data storage piece.

Sitting on top is YARN

### YARN

Data processing part of hadoop.

The system that manages the resources of the computing cluster.

What gets to run tasks when, what nodes are availabel for extra work, etc.

The heartbeat that keeps cluster going...

This resource negotiator allows for stuff to be built on top

### Map Reduce

A processing model, part of Hadoop Proper, that allows you to process your data across the system.

It consists of mappers and reducers

Mappers - Transform the data in parallel across the cluster
Reducers - These Aggregate the data together

Very simple concept but very versatile.

### Pig

On top of MapReduce - if you don't want to write Java or Python, then you can write Pig - high level scripting language that looks similar to SQL in a way.

### Hive

Similar to PIG, but looks more similar to a SQL database - takes SQL queries, and executes them across the Hadoop Cluster.

###  Apache Ambari

This sits on top of everything - visualisation tool to see resources, etc. 

You can also execute hive queries, pig queries, etc

It allows you to see the state of the cluster.

Ambari is what hortonworks uses - there are others.

### Mesos

Mesos isn't part of Hadoop Proper, but it's similar to YARN, there are PROS and CONS.

Another way of managing resources in the cluster.

### Spark

This is one of the most exciting technologies for the Hadoop

Can sit on top of YARN or MESOS.

You can use Python, Java, or Scala to run stuff.

There is a lot of development.

It allows to run queries on top of hadoop cluster

Spark is very versitile, it can do Machine Learning across cluster, etc.

### TEZ

Similar to SPARK - it uses a directed acyclic graph. It can produce more optimal plans to execute queries.

TEZ is often used with Hive to accelerate it. HIVE -> TEZ might be faster than HIVE -> MapReduce

### HBASE

Sits aside, and it's a way to expose data on cluster to transactional platforms.

HBase is a NoSQL database - really fast database made for fast transaction rates, IE hit from website.

HBase exports the data in the cluster, and provides way to expose results to other systems.

### Apache STORM

Processing streaming data - sensors, web logs, etc. You can process it with STORM. In real time. You can update ML models as data comes in.

### Oozie

Way of scheduling jobs in cluster. If needs different steps and systems, this can allow to run scheduled jobs. Complicated operations that require integrations and queries of multiple serviecs, Oozie can manage that.

### Zookeeper

Technology for coordinating everything in cluster. Keeping track of which nodes are up/down. 
Shared state across the cluster that different applications can use.

Many applications rely on Zookeeper, to maintain reliable & consistent performance across a cluster.

Can be used to keeep track of which master node is available, etc.

### Data Ingestion

How do you get data into cluster

#### Scoop

Tieing relational database into HDFS filesystem. 

#### Flume

Transporting web logs in large scale, listen to logs, in real time and publishing them to cluster in real time

#### Kafka

General purpose, collect data from cluster of web servers, and broadcast that into HDFS

## External Storage

Hadoop stack was left (that's why HBase is not here)

### MySQL

It's possible to read / write data from MySQL data

### Cassandra & MongoDB

Are also good uses to expose data for real time usage, so similar to HBase.

## Query Engines

External query engines.

Hive is a similar thing, but as it's more tightly integrated, then it's not here.

### Apache Drill

Write SQL queries that work across several non-sql databases. You can merge results from HBAse, Mongo etc.

### Hue

Also a way of interactively creating queries. For Cloudera it takes the role of Ambaira.

### Apache Phoenix

Like Drill, to use queries to many database types. However it takes one step further, and gives you guarantees and OTP. It can make non-sql datastore look like a relational db and its guarantees.

### Presto

Another way to execute queries

### Apache Zeppelin

Same, but takes a notebook approach.







## Query Engines

