# Hadoop under the hood

Talking about YARN, TEZ, and job management software like Oozie, Zeplin and Hue!

All the higher level tools and technologies that are the glue.

# HADOOP YARN!

Fundamental piece - **YET ANOTHER RESOURCE NEGOTIATOR**

## What is YARN?

* Yet another resource negotiator
    - Introduced in Hadoop 2
        + Hadoop 1 was a monolyth as YARN was part of MR
    - Separates the problem of managing resources on your cluster from MapReduce
    - Enabled development of MapReduce alternatives (Spark, Tez) built on top of YARN
* It's just there, under the hood, managing the usage of your cluster
    - I can't think of a reason why you'd need to actually write code against it yourself in this day and age. but you can....

# Where YARN fits in

We have at the bottom HDFS - files replicated across blocks in the cluster

In the middle is YARN - in the compute layer. Can execute computing chunks that need to process chunk of data in cluster. YARN splits computation across cluster, whils HDFS splits data storage. YARN tries to maintain data locality - if you want to execute process that is tried to execute near an HDFS< it tries to run it in the same host.

And at the top MR, Spark and TEZ... these are YARN applications that sits in the computing layer..

## YARN Foundation of hadoop

There are also alternative job negotiators... 

Map Reduce is something that can sit on top of MR, aand can also run on TEZ

TEZ and MR also run on top of YARN.

It's all scalable and reliable..

Very flexible and enabled quite a bit of innovation.

# How YARN works 

Same as Map Reduce diagram

* Your application talks to the resource manager to distribute work to your cluster
* you can specify data locallity - which HDFS blocks do you want to process?
    - YARN will try to get the process on the same node that has your HDFS blocks
* You can specify different schedulling options for applications
    - So you can run more than one application at once on your cluster
    - FIFO, capacity and Fair schedulers
        + FIFO runs jobs in sequence, first in first out
        + Capacity may run jobs in parallel if there's enough spare capacity
        + Fair may cut into a larger running job if you just want to squeeze in a small one

# Building new YARN applications

* There s already everything you need so you might not even need - build it on top of 
    - Spark Or TEZ
        + Directed Acyclic Graph
* But if you really need to
    - There are frameworks: apache slider twill
    - And there are some books in the topic

 





