# Simulating Zookeeper Master Failure

We're going to start by sshing to our VM and change to root!

And let's start:

```
cd /usr/hdp/current/zookeeper-client

cd bin

ls
```

We would normally use the java interface, but now we just want to use the CLI:

```
./zkCli.sh

ls /
```

Let's pretend we're setting up a new system of our own.

Imagine a system with a single master, where nodes need to agree who is the master.

Imagine i am running a node that is running to become master. It's an ephemeral node. If the session goes away, this node will be deleted.

As long as process is running talking to zookeeper, zookeeper will report as master. But as soon as we disconnect, zookeeper will know and will let other nodes be master.

It would issue the command to create a test master, and we can put any binary data, in this case a text.

```
create -e /testmaster "127.0.0:2223"
```

It created a master because there wasn't a master there.

Now we can query the existing nodes:

```
get /testmaster
```

We can see the testmaster there, with the string we gave it.

Now if the node goes away by quitting with ```quit```.

Now the master is deleted. let's login and try to see if its there.

```
ls /
get /testmaster
```

If I don't have a master, we may be able ot nominate ourselves as master:

```
create -e /testmaster "127.0.0.1:2225"
```

Now if I try to create another one, it wont work!

```
create -e /testmaster "127.0.0.1:2225"
```

It says that the node alaready exists.

# Real life failure

If a real world failure.

A test master has set up as a test master. That master goes down. Because it was Ephemeral, the test master node will disappear.

And clients will figure out who the master is, and notice there is no test master. 

Zookeeper will ensure that only 1 testmaster is created.

It ensures that the master is responsive.

Because it's ephemeral we just need to quit.

We are running in a single machine instead of a cluster, so it's very contribed.







