# Advanced Kafka

Something closer to do in reality, to build a kafka connector and monitor a file and publish new lines on that file to new lines in a topic.

This would be similar to log processing. An error log written out continually and you want to publish new lines to kafka where you can aggregate into 1 topic and published.

Kafka has afile connector, but we need to conifigure it.

# Configuring

There is a conf folder in the kafka folder

* Sample config properties that come with kafka
* Connect standalone - use to setup network env for standalone connector
* Connect file sync - how to store the contents of stream as comes in
* Connect file source - setup to listen to changes of a file and publish as producer on a topic on a stream

Since these are part of kafka we don't want to modify them so let's copy them into home

```
cp connect-standalone.properties ~/
cp connect-file-sink.properties ~/
cp connect-file-source.properties ~/

cd ~
```

Now let's edit them!

* For connect standalone properties
    - bootstrap.servers=sandbox.hortonworks.com:6667
* Connect file sink
    - file=/home/maria_dev/logout.txt
    - topics=log-test
* Connect file source
    - file=/home/maria_dev/access_log_small.txt
    - topic=log-test


Let's download that file

```
wget http://media.sundog-soft.com/hadoop/access_log_small.txt

less access_log_small.txt
```

Before we start publishing data from that log, let's setup a consumer to listen to that data

Besides to publish and consume that into the file, we also want a consumer to listen and dump everything.

In our other terminal we do:

```
./kafka-console-consumer.sh --bootstrap-server sandbox.hortonworks.com:6667 --topic log-test --zookeeper localhost:2181
```

Now back to our previous terminal to register the producer.

```
cd /usr/hdp/current/kafka-broker/bin

./connect-standalone.sh ~/connect-standalone.properties ~/connect-file-source.properties ~/connect-file-sink.properties
```

This is a bit closer to a real life scenario.

Let's open a NEW terminal, and run the follwoing

```
cd ~

less logout.txt
```

We setup our standalone connector and publish it to our logout.txt.

We're also listening to it from the other consumer

We can show that it's writing, let's add a line to access log

```
echo "This is a new line" >> access_log_small.txt
```

It works!

We can now shut down the kafka service.