# Apache Storm Example

We'll just see one of the sample exmaples

We kick off VM, and in ambari, we log in as admin and **start the Storm server**.

And built in samples that come with Storm come in with Kafka connectivity.

Let's go and start kafka.

Now on terminal:

```
cd /usr/hdp/current

cd storm-client

cd contrib/storm-starter/src/jvm/org/apache/storm/

cd starter

ls
```

Let's have a look at WordCountTopology.Java

This is an example of a python integration - we have a storm programme that listents to a spout of random sentences, and will keep track of how many times each word is received over time.

There is a Bolt SplitSentence that just calls splitsentence.py

It defines the output the Bolt which is a Field("word")

Then we slap that into a bolt called word count, and what it does is take the tuple of words, and for each word it will update a map from strings to integers. And emit to collector the new word and the count.

And finally the output fields is Fields("word", "count")

Finally the main function we have a TopologyBuilder, then set Spout to a RandomeSentenceSpount()

Then set the bolt called "split", using the SplitSentence() class
And finally the "count" WordCount() bolt, 

Give configuration, and kick it off.

**Now let's kick it off**

```
storm jar /usr/hdp/current/storm-client/contrib/storm-starter/storm-starter-topologies-*.jar org.apache.storm.starter.WordCountTopology wordcount
```

We can see the the dashboard for storm at at http://127.0.0.1:8744/

Now lets see the logs

```
cd /usr/hdp/current/storm-client/logs

cd workers-artifacts/
```

We can see the logs and the results.

Let's now kill the job in teh storm UI.








