
# SPARK!

Hot / quick-Emerging technology in the Hadoop world!

A lot of cool features on top of spark: ML, Graph analysis, etc

# Intro to Spark 

* A fast and general engine for large-scale data processing
* It has a rich ecosystem on top that allows for ML, data mining, graph analysis, straming data, etc

# It's scalable!

SPARK follows a similar pattern.

Our driver program/spark context talks to the cluster manager (could be its own cluster manager SPARK or YARN, or MESOS!)
And then it talks to an entire cluster of commodity computers.
Unlike disk-based solutions hitting HDFS all the time, it tries to maintain as much as possible in-memory.

# It's fast!

* Run programms up to 100x faster than hadoop MR in memory, or 10x faster on disk
* DAG Engine (Directed acyclic graph) optimises workflows
    - Simlar to TEZ

# It's HOT

* Amazon
* Ebay - log analysis and aggregation
* NASA JPL - deep space network
* Groupon
* Trip Adviser
* Yahoo

# It's not that hard

* Code in Python, Java, Scala
* Built around one main concept: The resilient distributed dataset (RDD)

# Components of Spark

Althouhgh you can program on the RDD level, there are other packages.

* SPARK Streaming
    - Instead of doing batch processing, we can input data in real time
    - eg. log server data can be analysed across window of time
* SPARK SQL
    - SQL interface
    - Or use SQL-like funcitons to transform data
    - This is the direction going towards
    - Most optimisations are focusing on SQL
    - It can do even faster optimisations
* MLlib
    - Entire library of ML and data mining
    - It would be very challenging to break down a ML problem into mappers and reducers
    - MLLib does this for you
    - A lot of classes to extract meaning
* GraphX
    - Have graphs of friends of friends
    - Want to analyse the properties
    - Provides extensible ways of doing this
    - Can do degrees of separation with GraphX

# Python

If using in PROD, python is OK, but SCALA is what SPARK is written in...

Gives you more faster performace. SCALA compiles into java byte code. All of Hadoop ultimately runs on Java.

Python is significantly slower. Scala is faster and use less resources.

If you do move from Python to SCALA, it looks very similar.
