# Why NoSQL

RDBs are good for giving SQL-functionality. If you're doing analytical work, RBDs are very useful.

But if you need to take stuff to the next level, SQL systems are not as scalable.

Maybe you just need to very quickly answer specific questions, but if you need to do that to a very large scale, you can't.

Amazon/google needs something that can hanldle 10k transactions per second.

Qustions:
* What did the customer order
* What are the lists of X for this customer
* Etc

NoSQL systems are made to scale horizontally forever.

## HBase

This is the most relevant technology for this course. 

**Built on top of HDFS!!** HAve a fast and scalable transactional system that is stored in a horizontally scalable in the HDFS cluster.

You can expose it to a webservices, etc

## NoSQL - When RDBMS don't cut it

When you jsut want to answer simple questions at high transaction rates.

## Random Access to Planet-Size data!

Good way to think about this problem.

When you have loads of data (trully big data) it has to live in a distributed cluster in a hard drive. Dataset is only getting bigger every time.

It is also about planet-sized access to the data. 

Everyone is trying to hit access to the entire data. What they search in google, etc. It needs to happen fast, and at super large scale.

# Scaling up Mysql etc to massive loads requires extreme measures

This is the dark ages of pre-nosql

* Denormalization
    - Have a look at a table, but create another table that has the info you need
    - Pre-materialize views in a way that your website needs it
    - If you need item names, etc, etc, you better have a table that already has that data so it doesn't have to check the disk
* Caching layers
    - Distributed caching layer on top of the database itself, to avoid traffic happening in the database
    - But traffic can be out of sync wid db :(
* Master / Slave setups
    - Multiple dbs where some handles writes, others handle reads
    - Requires expert DBa
* Sharding
    - Can split database into multiple ones, where each db has specific keys
* Materialized views
    - Databases have formate expected
* Removing stored procedures
    - You have to give up any logic taht spends time

Bending planet size data at planet scale is very hard for SQL.

It's a **support nightmare**.

## Do you really need SQL?

* Maybe you don't need SQL, probably you have very specific queries that are being requested
* You might not need a rich query language, you might just need an Api that requires specific information
* Get info on given key, or put stuff in given key

And

* Your high-transaction queries are probably pretty simple once de-normalized
* A simple get/put API may meet your needs
* Looking up values for a given key is simple, fast and scalable
* You can do both.

You can do both! You can have a hadoop cluster where you can do analytics, but then you can bolt on a NoSQL db to do the right thing.

## Sample Architecture

Client & Request Router -> Shard 1 -> Shard Backup 1

When you are dealing with scale and speed, you need simplicity.

## Use the right tool for the job

* For analytic queries = HIVE, Pig, Spark, etc. work great
* Exporting data to MySQL is plenty fast for most applications too
* But if you work at giant scale - export your data to a non-relational database

## Sample applicaiton architecture (greatly simplified!)

**Data source -> Spark Streamming/YARN/HDFS -> MongoDB -> Web servers -> Happy Customers**


