# HBase

Built on top of HDFS. If storing massive datasets, HBase can allow to open those to large scale.

## What is it? 

**Non-relational, scalable database built on HDFS!!**

It doesn't have a query language, but it does have an API!

## **Based on Google's BigTable**

Most of it was built on papers written by Google!

It's an OS implementation described on BigTable.

# CRUD

It has an API.

* Create
* Read
* Update
* Delete
* There is no query language, only CRUD APIs!


# Architecture

It's split into a couple of region servers - it's not a geographic regions, but it's ranges of keys = sharding, and it's auto-sharding! 

And As you add new servers it also adapts. You don't have to worry about the details. it can automatically distribute your data across a large dataset.

Region servers are sitting on top of HDFS. 

When you have a web appliaction talking to the server, it talks to the region servers.

HMasters keep track of the schemas. It keeps track of everyhting.

Zookeeper is the one the watches the watcher. It keeps tracker of who the HMaster is - Zookeeper can track and create new masters.

* Partitioned across regions
* There are master services that keep track where everything is
* Data is stored in HDFS

# HBase data model

* Fast access to any given ROW
* A ROW is referenced by a unique KEY
* Each ROW contains information about that KEY (ie families)
* You define COLUMN FAMILIES
* COLUMN FAMILY may contain arbitrary COLUMNS
    - Database of movieratings, you don't want a column for each movie rating
    - Instead, you create a col family, and column for each movie
    - It's ok if a row doesn't have specific columns
* Have a small number of COLUMN FAMILIES, but blow a lot of COLUMNS
* Populated in a sparse manner
* Each CELL can have many versions with given timestamps
* Sparse data is A-OK - missing columns in a row consume no storage

# Example: One row of a web table

Google wanted to track all links that connected to a website.

Schema in big table might look like:

* KEY = Website = com.cnn.www (stored in reverse)
* Contents Column Family = 1 column = versioning feature creates 3 copies, stores the last 3 crawls = <contents, <html><head>...>
* Then they have an anchor column family = <Anchor:cnnsi.com, CNN> <Anchor:my.look.ca, CNN.com> 

# Some ways to access HBase

* HBase shell
* Java API
    - Wrappers for Python, Scala, etc
* Spark, Hive, Pig
* REST service
* Thrift Service
    - Can represnet data more compatly
* Avro Service
    - Same as thrift, 





