# Understanding your requirements

Putting pieces together. Ways of approaching the problems

# Working Backwards

* Start with the end user's needs, not from where your data is coming from
    - Sometimes you need to meet in the middle
* What sort of access patterns do you anticipate from your end-users?
    - Analytical queries that span large data ranges?
    - Huge amounts of small transactions for very specific rows of data?
    - Both?
* What availability do these users demand?
* What consistency do these users demand?


# Think about requirements

* Just how big is your big data?
    - Do you really need a cluster?
* How much internal infrastructure and expertise is available?
    - Should you use AWS or something similar?
    - Do systems your already know fit the bill?
* What about data retention?
    - Do you need to keep data around forever, for auditing?
    - Or do you need to purge it often, for privacy?
* What about security?
    - Check with legal?

# More requirements to understand

* Latency
    - How quickly do end users need to get a response?
        + Milliseconds? Then something like HBase or Cassandra will be needed
* Timeliness
    - Can queries be based on day old data? Minute-old?
        + Oozie-scheduled jobs in Hive/Pig/Spark etc may cut it
    - Or must it be near real time?
        + Use spark streaming / storm / flink and kafka or flume


# Judicious future-proofing

* Once you decide where to store your "big data", moving it will be really difficult later on
    - Think carefully before choosing propertary solutions or cloud-based storage
* Will business analysts want your data in adition to end users (or vice versa)

# A cheat to win

* Does your organisation have existing compoentns you can use?
    - Don't build a new data warehouse if you already have one!
    - Rebuilding existing technology always has negative business value
* What's the least amount of infrastructure you need to build?
    - Import existing data with Sqoop, etc. if you can
    - If relaxing a requirement saves a lot of money at least ask


