
# MapReduce Fundamental Concepts

## Why mapReduce?

* Distributes the processing on your cluster
* Divides data into partitions that are MAPPED (transformed) and REDUCED (aggregated) by mapper and reducer
* Resilient to failure - an application master monitors your mappers and reducers on each partition
* This Map + Reduce are provided on a specific language that does the processing

## Example

We're dealing with movie data example.
Movies with specific rating stars 

How many movies did a user rate?

Let's say Bob rated antz, forrest gump and dumbo
And Sally rated Lion King, Nemo and Toy Story 

We wanna find out in the end bob = 3, sally = 3

How do we make it a map reduce problem?

1st thing - transform raw input data to a sense that makes sense by us.

**The MAPPER converts raw source data into key/value pairs**

* INPUT DATA = Individual movie rating
    - MAPPER Transforms it into key value mair
* RESULT = K1:V, K2:V, etc

### Making it real

Let's take a dataset, which has specific USERID, MOVIEID, RATING, TIMESTAMP

We only care about the USERID and MOVIEID, and that's it.

So mapper function will only be using those 2 columns, and it will process every single line, converting the columns into key->value formats

When we are done with mapper function, we have our key->value pairs, in this case of user->value

## Shuffle  & Sort

The next step for MapReduce is to shuffle and sort!

It takes a look at individual key value pairs, and aggregates all the values it sees, which ends  up looking like key->[value1,value2,value3, etc]

It will aggregate all of the values into one spot.

Given this output of shuffle and sort...

## Reducer

Now we can take the decision on what calculation we want to carry out for the reducer part.

In this case we can just call the len() function on the value, which would give us the result we desire.

* INPUT: Key->[Value1, Value2, ...]
* REDUCER: key->len([Value1, value2, ...])
* RESULT: key->1, key2->3, etc...

**Putting it all together we can see the MAPPER, SHUFFLE&SORT and REDUCER**

